---
layout: single
title: "Becoming a US Citizen"
excerpt: "On March 27th I became a US citizen"
tags: [personal, citizenship]
header:
  overlay_color: "#0192CA"
gallery:

- url: "/assets/images/blog/immigration/immi1.jpg"
  image_path: "/assets/images/blog/immigration/immi1.jpg"
  title: "foo"
- url: "/assets/images/blog/immigration/immi2.jpg"
  image_path: "/assets/images/blog/immigration/immi2.jpg"
  title: "foo"
- url: "/assets/images/blog/immigration/immi3.jpg"
  image_path: "/assets/images/blog/immigration/immi3.jpg"
  title: "foo"
- url: "/assets/images/blog/immigration/immi4.jpg"
  image_path: "/assets/images/blog/immigration/immi4.jpg"
  title: "foo"

---

On the morning of March 27th 2017, I became a US citizen, marking the
end of a three-year period of applications, biometrics appointments,
interviews and evidence gathering.

I have seen very many posts on the web from people asking what happens
at a swearing in ceremony.  I decided to add my experience to the pool
of answers that are out there because maybe somebody else will find it
helpful, and I also want to remember this particular day of my life.

My swearing in ceremony was at the USCIS office in Chicago, a 20
minute walk from my house.  We arrived about half an hour early and
found ourselves swept into a streamlined, but still very moving,
process.

As we arrived in the waiting area, Jen and I were separated by a very,
very efficient USCIS officer: I ws placed with the 118 other new
citizens in one block of seating, and Jen was moved to sit with the
friends and family in another set of seating.  As 9 o’clock rolled
around, USCIS started calling the new citizens forward, row by row,
checking that they had filled in their paperwork correctly, and then
sending them forward to another line.  This line led to a table where
one USCIS officer took your green card, a second one checked your
paperwork and then a third one handed you a card with a number on it
(I was 56).  With that number you are admitted to the auditorium where
the ceremony takes place.

After some waiting, friends and family are allowed in to the other
side of the auditorium and the ceremony begins.  First with a factual
speech (remember: your naturalization certificate wont get you back
into the country, you need a passport), then a video titled “Faces of
America”.  The officer on stage then said “now we’re going to sing the
national anthem”.  A recording started playing, but I don’t think
anybody was really confident enough to sing along, so there was plenty
of mumbling (including from myself).  I have never put my hand on my
heart during a national antherm before, but this felt like an
opportune time to start doing so.  I felt a little silly doing that,
especially because nobody around me did so.  That said, I was feeling
some pride and why not run with it?

Following the anthem, another officer gave a speech about the
importance of citizenship, about America being a welcoming and
tolerant place.  There was one part of it that hit me right in the
stomach:

> This is the end of your journey as immigrants, and the start of your
> new journey as citizens in a new home.

Around about here I started to get very emotional.  I haven’t lived in
a country where I can say that I’m a native for around 10 years, and
despite never having really struggled or felt like I was going to get
removed from the country, the idea that it is “home” now felt like a
huge weight off my shoulders and I felt a huge sense of relief.  I can
only imagine how the others in the audience, for whom America is a
refuge, felt at hearing this.

I remember when I got married, we did the ceremony in the basement of
a courthouse, we lined up with dozens of other couples -- people from
all over the world, happy just to be together -- and it was a very
moving experience for me.  It felt like America was doing it *right*:
Diverse and accepting.  The citizenship ceremony evoked the same
feeling in me.  At this point in the proceedings, the officers started
calling out nationalities, and as they did, the immigrants from each
country stood up.  Among 119 new citizens, 40 different nationalities
were represented.  After everybody was standing, we commenced the Oath
of Allegience.

I did not expect it, but I found it *very* difficult to say the words
of the oath of allegience.  Particularly around this passage:

> I hereby declare, on oath, that I absolutely and entirely renounce
> and abjure all allegiance and fidelity to any foreign prince,
> potentate, state, or sovereignty, of whom or which I have heretofore
> been a subject or citizen; that I will support and defend the
> Constitution

My voice cracked a number of times because everything felt *real* in a
more concrete way than it had in the past.  It was really driven home
to me that America *is* my home, I *belong* here, and I *believe* in
it.  It was an overwhelmingly positive feeling, and one that I did not
expect to be taken by so strongly.  It was around here that I
regretted not having taken tissues into the auditorium.

With all of the oathing and alleiging out of the way, it was time to
distribute certificates, and I learned why they were being so precise
with the seating arrangements, moving people row by row, keeping us in
order.  Each row was summoned forward and everybody, in order, shook
the hand of the USCIS officer and received their certificate.  It's a
not entirely trivial logistical task to over 100 certificated in order
and shepherd so many people around, but it went off without a hitch.

And like that, it was done.  I am a citizen of a new country.  Jen
snapped some pictures of me posing with my certificate on the stage,
and we left and got breakfast.

Becoming a permanent resident, and then a citizen, was a long and
sometimes tiring process.  I saw my USCIS file in my final interview
and it was fully 5 inches thick, packed with FBI background checks,
proof that my marriage was genuine, biographical details on my family
and much, much more.  Despite the process being long and hard I was
treated in a friendly and courteous manner at every step and I am
genuinely proud to be an American.

Thanks, America.

{% include gallery caption="Photographs from becoming a US citizen" layout="half" %}

