---
layout: post
title: "Becoming a US Citizen"
modified:
categories: blog
excerpt: "On March 27th I became a US citizen"
tags: [personal, citizenship]
noshare: false
nocomments: false
image:
feature:
---

On the morning of March 27th 2017, I became a US citizen, marking the
end of a three-year period of applications, biometrics appointments,
interviews and evidence gathering.

I have seen very many posts on the web from people asking what happens
at a swearing in ceremony.  I decided to add my experience to the pool
of answers that are out there because maybe somebody else will find it
helpful, and I also want to remember this particular day of my life.

My swearing in ceremony was at the USCIS office in Chicago, a 20
minute walk from my house.  Jen and I arrived about half an hour early
for the swearing in ceremony and found ourselves swept into a very
efficient process.

As we arrived in the waiting area, Jen and I were separated by a very,
very efficient USCIS officer: I ws placed with the 118 other new
citizens in one block of seating, and Jen was moved to sit with the
friends and family in another set of seating.  As 9 o’clock rolled
around, the efficient USCIS officer started calling the new citizens
forward, row by row, checking that they had filled in their paperwork
correctly, and then sending them forward to another line.  This line
led to a table where one USCIS officer took your green card, a second
one checked your paperwork and then a third one handed you a card with
a number on it (I was 56).  With that number you are admitted to the
auditorium where the ceremony takes place.

In the auditorium, another USCIS officer guides you to a seat and
collects your number.  I know they run through this process multiple
times per week, but I was very impressed by the efficiency of the
whole thing.

After some waiting, friends and family are allowed in to the other
side of the auditorium and the ceremony begins.  First with a factual
speech (remember: your naturalization certificate wont get you back
into the country, you need a passport), then a video titled “Faces of
America”.  The officer on stage then said “now we’re going to sing the
national anthem”.  A recording started playing, but I don’t think
anybody was really confident enough to sing along, so there was plenty
of mumbling around me (including from myself).  I have never put my
hand on my heart during a national antherm before, but this felt like
a most opportune time to start doing so.

Following the anthem, another officer gave a speech about the
importance of citizenship, about America being a welcoming and
tolerant place.  There was one part of it that hit me right in the
stomach:

> This is the end of your journey as immigrants, and the start of your
> new journey as citizens in a new home.

Around about here I started to get very emotional.  I haven’t lived in
a country where I can say that I’m a native for around 10 years at
this point, and despite never having really struggled or felt like I
was going to get removed from the country, the idea that it is “home”
now felt like a huge weight off my shoulders and I felt a huge sense
of relief.

I remember when I got married, we did the ceremony in the basement of
a courthouse, we lined up with dozens of other couples -- people from
all over the world, happy just to be together -- and it was a very
moving experience for me.  It felt like America was doing it *right*.
The citizenship ceremony evoked the same feeling in me.  At this
point, the officers started calling out nationalities, and as they
did, the immigrants from each country stood up.  Amoung 119 new
citizens, 40 different nationalities were represented.  After
everybody was standing, we commenced the Oath of Allegience.

I did not expect it, but I found it *very* difficult to say the words
of the oath of allegience.  Particularly around this passage:

> I hereby declare, on oath, that I absolutely and entirely renounce
> and abjure all allegiance and fidelity to any foreign prince,
> potentate, state, or sovereignty, of whom or which I have heretofore
> been a subject or citizen; that I will support and defend the
> Constitution

My voice cracked a number of times because everything felt *real* in a
more concrete way than it had in the past.  It was really driven home
to me that America *is* my home, I *belong* here, and I *believe* in
it.  It was an overwhelmingly positive feeling, and one that I did not
expect to be taken by so strongly.

After the oath, we took the pledge of allegience.  When I told my
colleagues about this at work, it caused much amusement.  I think that
typically the pledge of allegience is something that schoolchildren do
most days.

With all of the oathing and alleiging out of the way, it was time to
distribute certificates, and I learned why they were being so precise
with the seating arrangements.  Each row was summoned forward and
everybody, in order, shook the hand of the USCIS officer and received
their certificate.  It's a not entirely trivial logistical task to get
them all in order and shepherd so many people around, but it went off
without a hitch.

And like that, it was done.  I was a citizen of a new country.  Jen
snapped some pictures of me posing with my certificate on the stage,
and we left and got breakfast.

Becoming a permanent resident, and then a citizen, was a long and
sometimes tiring process.  I saw my USCIS file in my final interview
and it was fully 5 inches thick.  FBI background checks, proof that my
marriage was genuine, biographical details on my family and much, much
more.  Despite the process being long and hard I was treated in a
friendly and courteous manner at every step and I am genuinely proud
to be an American.

<figure class="third">
  <a href="/images/blog/immigration/immi1.jpg"><img src="/images/blog/immigration/immi1.jpg" alt="image"></a>
  <a href="/images/blog/immigration/immi2.jpg"><img src="/images/blog/immigration/immi2.jpg" alt="image"></a>
  <a href="/images/blog/immigration/immi3.jpg"><img src="/images/blog/immigration/immi3.jpg" alt="image"></a>
  <a href="/images/blog/immigration/immi4.jpg"><img src="/images/blog/immigration/immi4.jpg" alt="image"></a>
</figure>
