---
layout: post
title: "P2P Learning"
modified:
categories: blog
excerpt: "Getting interviewed about learning"
tags: [personal, citizenship]
noshare: false
nocomments: false
image:
feature:
---

Sometimes at work I get the opportunity to do something quite
delightful.  This happened recently and this time around it was being
interviewed about how I've learned about software development from
other engineers at Narrative Science.  The interview is available to
read
[here](http://www.builtinchicago.org/2017/06/15/what-devs-learn-each-other).
The first question was

> What is the most important thing you've learned from a colleague?

I struggled for a while to find an answer to this question because I
could point to any number of times that somebody I admire has taken
the time to coach me through a difficult technical problem, or a
manager or other mentor has given me career guidance that changed my
direction.  Ultimately, though, I told a story about my first ever
shift of being on-call for our product and the engineer who helped me
through it.  Here is the relevant piece of the story

<figure>
  <a href="/images/blog/p2plearning/oncall_story.png""><img src="/images/blog/p2plearning/oncall_story.png" alt="image"></a>
</figure>

Eric, the engineer who was available to help me through this oncall
problem wasn't consciously coaching me on how to behave as an engineer
during this event, but his attitude and behavior rubbed off on me to
the point that I think it's one of the things that shaped who I try to
be as an engineer.

It was around this time that I first made the move from being a pure
"software developer" to being more involved with keeping things
running and questions of infrastructure in general, a decision that
shaped the course of my future career, and indirectly led me into a
more client and service focused role than I would have originally
thought would appeal to me, but upon reflection I realize that
fundamentally what motivates me as an employee is to support a team,
facilitate growth, and to be challenged by big, scary problems.  My
current role certainly supports all of that.

If you had told me four years ago -- as I was ending my career as an
astrophysicist -- that I'd be quite delighted by being on the phone
with a software company's clients, talking them through a tricky
software install I quite literally would not have believed you, but
when I look at my career now I can't imagine it having gone any other
way.

On top of that, Eric taught me how to increase the number of Celery
workers on a busy machine.
